---
also_on_Dreamwidth: Not yet
tags:
country:
  - Sweden
location:
  - Lövånger
  - Umeå
image:
photos_pubished:
weight(kg): 57.5
high_temp(°C):
low_temp(°C):
training:
  - Spark
  - Yoga
---
This morning was the first day I could take the spark to the bus stop this year. Yay! No heavy backpack on my shoulders. The conditions were perfect, the snow was white and lovely everywhere, but on the street it was perfectly compacted, and no gravel had been spread on the road, so that the spark glided smoothly. Ideal early winter weather. If only it could have lasted. But no, it warmed up to +4° C. So even though I got to take the early bus home, by the time it arrived at 16:00 the roads were wet slush, combined with gravel that the city council had put out as they like it when people aren't crashing their cars, or falling over. Luckily, Keldor also finished work at a reasonable time, and got to Lövånger only one minute after me, so we put my spark in the back of the van, and I got a ride home. 

The housekeeper was there working magic, so to keep out of the way, we took the extra wheelbarrow (that Keldor had sold on FB marketplace weeks ago, and left out in the driveway for them to come pick up, but they never did, despite several reminders) over to Bryan's house, tucked it into the garden shed there, and shovelled and swept the slush off his stairs, driveway, and walkway, so it doesn't freeze later. One might think it doesn't matter, since Bryan won't be moving in till August, when the snow and ice will have long been melted. However, we may need to sleep there when the plumbers are installing our new toilets, and perhaps we may have enough people staying here for New Years that we need to borrow it for overflow crash space. One never knows.

In other news, I am learning how to use GitHub to make a blog from an Obsidian vault. Not long after I started using [Obsidian](https://obsidian.md/) I created a vault for my blog posts, and set up far more metadata (properties) for each note than are possible here. At that point, I started doing my composition there, and copying them to Dreamwidth. Sometimes. Many of them didn't get copied here, even though I had at least bullet points of some things that had happened that day. I also started putting in lots of images, as it is super easy to put images into Obsidian (a direct contrast to Dreamwidth), which meant that the ones I did post here I usually skipped the photos, unless I felt extra full of energy to go to the bother of posting the photos first somewhere else, and then using the url to put it here.

I have also started working my way back through my various Dreamwidth posts, and copying them, one at a time, into Obsidian. While one could write a script to just go harvest them, it has been kind of interesting to look at what I posted as I do. As a result, I have only managed to pull in everything from this year, and I have been using Dreamwidth, and Livejournal before then, decades longer than that.

I have been dreaming about taking my Obsidian vault, and making a blog from it, especially as then I could still echo them to Dreamwidth, but now the photos would exist, and I could, in theory, also put them in Dreamwidth. Yesterday, I finally got around to testing a [free Obsidian to Github to blog option](https://dev.to/defenderofbasic/host-your-obsidian-notebook-on-github-pages-for-free-8l1), and it worked. It will take time and learning to convert it into something I am truly happy with, but it will do, and my blog is backed up, at least this year. The rest can follow.

But, if anyone reading this wants more to read, or to see the photos that didn't come with the posts I have done this year, feel free to go have a look at my blog: https://riiac.github.io/Kareinas-blog/  so far, it has no index or table of contents, as I need to learn how to do that, but I have just added by hand a link to the previous post for all of November's posts. But now I have a headache, and it is way past my bedtime, so that will do for tonight. (And, since pushing to Github isn't set up on my phone, it won't show there before tomorrow anyway)

Previous post: [[2025-11-30 more progress on the room, and kex]]
